Hansel minutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman
hosted by Carl Franklin. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number one
15. Recorded live Friday, May 23rd, 2008.
Support for Hansel minutes is
provided by Tellerik already controls
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support
is also provided by.net developers
journals. The world's leading dotnet
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott and Carl,
talk about the joy of
programming and getting back to
basics. Hey, guess what? This
is Carl Franklin, back on the
Hansel minutes with Scott Hanselman.
Good to be back Scott.
It's the, it's the return
of the Franklin. I'm thrilled
to have you back. Our,
our, our yearlong blood feud
is finally Come on, man.
People are gonna say stuff
about that. No, I'm just
kidding. No, I just, I
started, when I started working
at Microsoft, I started going
to a lot of conferences
and I would meet people
in the hallway and I
would say, Oh dude, we
have to do it. And
it's been great. You've gotten
a lot of great stuff.
I've been listening. It's been
a pretty good run and
we've been having a lot
of fun and, you know,
and you meet certain people
and you just say, we've
got to do a show.
Next thing you know, I
blink and a couple of
months has gone by, without,
without Carl and people like
what's going on. Where's Carl.
Yeah. Well, you know, we've,
we've all got our lives,
our busy lives. And so
it's good to, it's good
to be back talking to
you again. We're going to
talk today about the joy
of programming. Yeah. And I
think that maybe a return
to the basics, because I
think that's some of the
fun aspects of this, This
something Richard and I have
been talking about recently, we've
recorded now, Don and rock
shows all the way into
July. We've got a whole
bunch of them stacked up,
cause this is the conference
season, you know? Right. But
I was just, we were
just talking lately about how,
you know, back in the
older days of dot and
Iraq's, we were really talking
more about the technology and
about the things that the
technology did, just like some
of the basic fundamental stuff,
which is where I, I
see a lot of people,
you know, a lot of
people who are new to.net,
obviously there are, we've got
a lot of newbies every
day coming into.net and they
don't have, they didn't, they
didn't grow up with us,
you know, as we sort
of progressed from just trying
to figure out this technology
to the more abstract things.
And now we're seems like
we're a little ivory tower
ish these days. So it's
good to get back to
them. I think six, when
someone says newbie, there's always
that implication, that that's a
bad thing. I mean, if
I, if I started programming
in scale out tomorrow, I
would be a newbie and
that's okay. Totally. I think
that computer science fundamentals though,
are our computer science fundamentals.
And I think that I
was always frustrated when people
would give me a hassle
about my interview questions. You
know, I wrote that big,
long blog post years ago
about top, you know, dot
net interview.net interview questions that
everyone should be able to
answer. Yeah, I got a
bunch of vacuums, you know,
you're an elitist, no one
should know, no one should
know those things. And some
of them I thought were
pretty basic computer science type
stuff. And they'll always be
the people that think that
one person is trying to
promote, you know, memorizing MSDN
as a, as a, as
a way to get job
security. But I, I think
that we, the dotnet community
could all use a little
refresher course on the basics.
Absolutely. You know, basics of
old basics of interface design,
and get back to the
patterns, start rereading our Fowler
books and rereading our gang
of four stuff. Yeah. You
know, that's why I try
to do the weekly source
code, you know, reading as
much code as I can
because I really believe that
you become a better programmer
by reading great programmers code.
You know, you don't become
a good, a good book
writer by writing more books.
I think you have to
read as many as possible.
You know, when I was
just learning to program, you
know, it was back in
what, 84, 85, you know,
or my father's TRS 80
model for, you know, the
cartoon guide to computer science.
And I had the operating
system commands and the, in
the programming language and I
just locked myself in the
room. And, and I was
just so into the whole
idea of, you know, making
this archaic little box, do
something that, you know, would
be perceived as wizardry, you
know, and always got in.
I'll always was into two
things, communications and audio always
throughout my whole entire career.
Those two, those two things
have really sort of been
the backbone of everything I
love to do with computers.
And I've been lucky that
I've been able to do
what I love, you know,
whether it's programming or music
or whatever, but I don't
know, every once in a
while you run into people
who have lost the joy
and every once in a
while, it happens to us
too. We get caught up
in our jobs and the
things that we have to
do. And so, so I
wanted to talk when I'm
talking to you here, I
want to tell you a
couple of things about what
I really don't like character
traits that I don't like
in people or behaviors that
I don't like in people
in this business. So this
is very odd for me
to be complaining about stuff,
but I'm not really, I'm
just pointing out behaviors. I
don't like when I exhibit
them and when other people
exhibit them, right. And one
of them, one of them
is pretense. Pretension just drives
me. Absolutely crazy. Just the,
of griping, whining, you know,
preoccupied, pretentious kind of stuff.
You know, and the antithesis
of that is the, the
mentors that I had, if
it weren't for them, if
it weren't for the people
who actually loved to share
their knowledge and you know,
we're happy to, to answer
any questions and not make
you feel like an idiot,
if it weren't for those
people, I might not have
gotten into it. I mean,
those people were as vital
in the early stages of
my, of my career. Think
about how many people out
there that are dotnet newbies
that could have one or
two lousy experiences that could
be something as simple as
someone being really cruel to
them in a forum or
something more complicated. Like they
weren't able to find what
they wanted on, you know,
using a search engine. Right.
All of those things add
up to pushing them down,
you know, and saying, you
know, maybe this isn't for
you and you have to
be really careful. I think
as people, just the fact
that we're listening to a
podcast right now, I think
puts us in some top
tier of people who care.
And I think that what
can we do to make
sure that the new folks
and the folks that are
at risk, the, at risk
youth of dotnet who may
very well be 30, 40,
50 years old, but you
know, the new people, what
can we do to make
sure that they don't have
those lousy experiences? Yeah. Well,
I mean, you know, you
do what we do, which
is to just be completely
open and sharing about what
we know. And, and one
thing that I try to
encourage in people is to
ask questions, you know, no
matter, you know, don't, don't
make your, don't feel stupid
because you have a question.
There's no such thing as
a dumb question. And this
is why I really disliked
the behavior of sort of
putting people down for asking
a question, you know what
I'm saying? Yeah. And that
just drives. That's funny. I
had an interesting kind of
discussion slash I wouldn't say
an argument, but a discussion
with my wife where you
know how wives can remember
stuff forever. Right. So, yeah,
1972, when you asked me
if this, if this, when
I asked you if this
dress made me look fat.
Yeah. So, yeah, so we're
driving, we're driving to the
movies. And she says out
of the blue, she's like,
you know, about six years
ago. And I was like,
Oh, no, six years ago
we were at a conference.
I brought her along with
me and a guy came
up and asked you a
question after, after a presentation.
And this is my wife
talking to me. And she
said, and you said, by
asking that question, you're, you're
telling me that you really
have no idea what you're
doing. And it was like,
you know, you're hearing your
own words coming back to
you. Right. Right. And I
want it to die. Right.
Just cause, cause I remember
that actually, you know, I,
it was one, it wasn't
necessarily an example of, you
know, six years ago, something
I don't remember in my
wife does, but this is
one of those things where
it was a perfect storm
of bad day. Yeah. And
then someone comes up and
asks you some question like,
so XML, is that going
to replace Java? Yeah. Something
and then, and then you
snap at them. Yeah. And
you just, and years later,
half a decade later, I
am, I am cringing. You
got the blue. Meanies keep
that up. Yeah. That, that
is it. That was a
defining moment for me where
I really try not to
be a jerk. Right. When
people are asking a dumb
question, isn't the right word.
You know, just to know,
it's funny how it's just
the basic and uninformed is
such a nicer way to
phrase it than ignorant because
ignorant has become a really
bad, painful way to phrase
uninformed. Cause, cause I am
decidedly uninformed on a number
of things for me to
think it's okay. Absolutely. There,
there are lots of things
in this, in, in.net development
that I really don't have
interest in that. Well, and
recognizing that is so important.
I mean, recognizing that, you
know, I have no idea
about XYZ or, or even
more realizing that you've forgotten
it. Right. You know, like
I got a question, I
got a question in the
email recently about, about WCF
windows, communication foundation. And you
know, it's been eight months
since I've been thinking deeply
about that. And frankly, I
don't know what the current,
you know, May, 2008 thoughts are
around WCF. So I told
the guy what I thought,
but I said, listen, I
don't know if this is
the current thinking right now.
So, you know, B the
B the B the F
you know, the way to
be the smartest man in
the room is to be
the first to say, I
don't know. Absolutely. Absolutely. I
usually assume that I am
not the smartest man in
the room, especially if Rory
is in the room with
me. Yeah. Yeah. There's this
other behavior that is, is
very similar, which is sort
of, you see people who,
who have this realm of
knowledge about a particular technology
or something that's very specific.
Right. And they feel they're
experts in that topic and
they may be experts in
that topic. And then, you
know, to, to sit on
the high horse and, you
know, and tell everybody else
that, unless they're doing it
their way, then they, you
know, thinking the way that
they think about it, then,
you know, they're wrong. This
sort of black and white
sort of be a little
thing of peop of their
peers, really, because they're doing
something differently. And I don't
see SA I don't, I
mean, some software is an
exact science, there are some
things that scientifically can be
done. Right. And that's it,
but more often there's so
many different permutations of ways
in architectures of ways to
do things that, that I,
I, I just find that
completely pretentious. It's really difficult
to tell him, you know,
what I want, what I
want is instead of always
do, you know, because I
said, so what I want
is a discussion of why
I want to know why,
and I want to know
what the alternatives are and
what the pros and cons
are. And that's the kind
of discussion that I want
to have, so I can
make a, my own mind.
Yeah. And I've found when
working with, with, with newer
programmers, that rather than focusing
so much on what you
should do and patterns, which
are basically declarations of correctness,
that trying to think about
things in the inverse, thinking
about anti-patterns right. Saying that
I don't know what the
right solution is, but I
know what not to do,
because I know what not
to do exactly. Because you
know, this young person that
I'm supposed to be mentoring
may very well have a
better solution in his head,
his or her head. And
they may come up with
an elegant solution that I
never even thought of. So
it would be presumptuous of
me to, to indicate that
this is the way to
do it, but I can
pretty much say this is
not the way to do
it. You know? And that's
where you start getting into
basis of computer science. It
starts saying that, you know,
this doubly nested or tripling
nested for loop won't scale
beyond a certain number of
items in the list, therefore,
this is what has tables
are for. And, you know,
so here's the anti-pattern Yeah.
Getting back to this whole
loving what you do. Thing
I, I just really can't
imagine not being able to,
to, to program the way
that I, not the way
that I like to, just
to program, to write code.
I mean, and that's why
I did it in the
first place is because I
loved it. You know what
I mean? Or your recent
DNR TV that you did
with middy, you hooked up
a.net remoting and a freaking
piano keyboard so that you
could control a player, piano
remotely. And I was just
like, you had such an
excitement in your voice while
you were, while you were
doing this, just like, Oh
Lord, this is how Carl
spends his weekends. And I'm
thinking to myself, what are
my hobbies? I don't really
have any, but it's hooking
up maybe to a player.
Piano sounds like a pretty
good time to Totally useless,
but it's impressive. It's not
useful at all, but it's
a, It's fun. It's fun.
Exactly. That's what it is.
I mean, I've got, I've
spent more time getting the
baby cams to work so
that I can see my
sons, you know, when they're
sleeping and make sure that,
you know, he hasn't pushed
a pillow over his head
or whatever, you know, you
get a five month old,
you worry about these things.
So I've spent the last
five months trying to get
the baby webcam just right.
Right. But, you know, and
I really am hoping to
pass that, that kind of
joy on onto them, the
joy of construction. Yeah. I
guess that's really the, what
it is. It's a joy,
it's the joy of creation,
whether you're an artist or
whether you're a person who
works with absolutely that's creation.
And when I meet people,
I'm realizing more and more
that people I can't re
relate to are those who
don't have that excitement about
how I can make that,
you know, what it is.
I realize what it is.
It's the sense of, of
empowerment. When I go, when
I go and talk to
middle schools and high schools
about, about software, one of
the, the kind of the
standard, my standard middle school
presentation involves opening up notepad
and typing in the alphabet.
And then we go down
to debug dot exe. And
we look at, you know,
how those, we know what's
a bit, what's a bite.
How did ABCD get, get
represented? And then we go
all the way up over
about an hour, hour and
a half talk and tell
most kids, attention span has
gone. And we get to
the point where we show
them how an MP3 is
encoded. Yeah. Or I'll go
into a, you know, a
fun, a fun example for
a 10 year old is
to open up paint and
draw a bunch of colored
squares, red, red, green, blue,
right. And then show them
how that gets red, green,
blue, and coded on disc.
And you know, when you
do this, maybe 20% of
them goes, Oh, and then
suddenly you can, you can
almost hear the neurons firing.
Right. It's such a wonderful
thing. And they suddenly figure
out that their TiVo has
an, has a hard drive
in it. Right. And that
hard drive works pretty much
like a, an RCA Victor
standard turntable did 80 years
ago. Yeah. And it all,
all the world connects. And
then the other 80% has
this very kind of like,
yeah, that's, that's kind of
cool. And I guess that's
fine. And they won't be
constructors. Maybe there'll be, I
don't know, marketers or suits
of some kind. But man,
you know, when people who
create are so much more
healthy and, and enthusiastic about
life, I've got a great
friend of mine who is
a programmer. And I just
assumed he programmed in his
spare time, I went over
to his house and he
opened up his garage and
it was this amazing shop
for woodworking. Nice. And I
realized this guy has to
create right. Whether it's software
or whether it's, you know,
and you go over to
his house and he's like,
Oh yeah, I made that
table. Oh yeah. Oh yeah.
You know, the kids needed
a chair. So I made
that. Right. What a sense
of empowerment one was to
have. I mean, I can't,
I can't hang a picture.
Yeah. Although if I do,
of course I use, I
use lasers to do it
though. You get the same
spark of creating, you know,
arranged electrons. So yeah. Yeah,
exactly. Isn't that funny though?
The electrons are there, they're
cheaper than a distribute, cheaper
than molecules, but there's a
lot of work to put
together some molecules that's right.
I'm always impressed. You know,
it's interesting too. It'd be
interesting to hear from the
listeners what their hobbies are.
And if there is a
parallel between the personality type,
that they are the fact
that they are creating with
software and what they have
created, that is not software.
Do you know how to
make the possible out of
the impossible? Well, the dotnet
ninjas at Telerik do they
just released a huge pack
of web controls, all built
on top of ESPN at
Ajax, that'll help you build
impossibly fast and interactive applications
in no time at all.
They've made the impossible possible
in desktop development. If you
think you can't have a
carousel component and wind forms,
well you can, they're windows
form suite features a super
powerful grid, view control, and
32 other crazy desktop components.
That'll give you a dazzling
WPF like features, but in
wind farms, they do the
same thing in reporting solutions
with a new design surface,
like nothing else looks just
like graph paper gives you
advanced page layout capabilities makes
it feel more like a
graphic design software than a
reporting solution. Go check them
out at  dot com
and be a dotnet Ninja.
And thanks for listening, You
know, I've said this before
on various shows, but I
think, and especially for men,
right, because you know, you
wonder why a lot of
software developers are men. Most
of them, I sort of
have this theory and it's
kind of wacky, but I
have this theory that since,
you know, a man's role
biologically in repro and reproduction
is very limited. You know,
it's really the woman who
creates life. I mean, she,
yeah, She's involved. Yeah, yeah.
Involved for very short periods
of time. And then this
is a way that you,
we can sort of create
an intelligence. You know, it's
almost, if you look at
it biologically, you know, what
motivates us to, to, to
create software, it is sort
of, I mean, when you
write programs, they are sort
of like little children. You
have to sort of maintain
them and help them grow
up. And you know, they,
you see them get smarter
and smarter and then they
stopped growing and then you
visit them in the nursing
home from time to time.
But, but, you know, and
I had a, a woman
friend who was a developer
and I told her this
theory and she said, Hm,
interesting. And then we were
talking about, you know, do
you have children? She says,
no, I had a hysterectomy.
I can't have children. Hmm.
Isn't that interesting woman programmer
can't have children. Wow. So
I don't know if this
is going to cause a
controversy or if we're going
to be talking about, I
wasn't exactly the direction I
thought you were going. But
what I'm hearing you say
is that here was a
person who was unable to
create in some way, but
found an outlet regarding Plus
could not create an intelligence.
You know, couldn't reproduce and
found, found a way to
do that. I mean, it's
a weird, wild, deep rooted
theory than I have. And
it might be total BS,
but I'd like to hear
what iPad. I think that
our, our, our many female
listeners, yeah. I certainly do
not mean to offend, you
know, the other, the other
thing that I like to
do creative wise is putting
machines together. I love buying.
Yeah. I love going to
new egg and ordering up
the parts, getting boxes and
unpacking them and putting the
machine together and installing the
software. I love that. That's
one of my favorite things
to do in the whole
world. You know, you know
why I like doing that
too. It's funny. I like
doing that. I like putting
together a fresh machine because
it's hard, but it's not
difficult. Right. You know, it's
not oppressively. You gotta know
what you're doing, but it's
not the unknown. It's not
like you're paving new ground.
Right. It's a relaxing Saturday
afternoon. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, exactly.
It's the difference between designing
and building a new engine
versus changing the oil on
your existing car? Right. One
can be very relaxing because
you know that it requires
some amount of skill, but
not so much skill that
it's going to have you
racking your brain. Unless of
course you get some sort
of strange bios problem that
is causing the screening. But
I tell you, you know,
I just, just last week
I had like the first
blue screen in my, on
my quad PC, the super
PC we built with Jeff
Atwood. Right. I have my
first blue screen, you know,
like ever, and I was
freaking out and I was
like, what is going on?
I've turned out to be
some software that I installed
driver or something. It was,
it was VMware. And I
removed it and everything's back.
And I mean, this was
a machine that stays up
for months. You know, I
reboot this machine, you know,
on the, on the solstices,
but rarely, rarely else. And
I have to say that
it is a constant source
of pride that Jeff and
I were able to put
this thing together and he
helped me get it to
two rock solid. Yeah. I
can do, I can do
24 hour renders of videos
that I do. And I
have no concern at all
that this thing is going
to blow up when I
wake up the next morning.
Yep. The machine is the
same way. My piece that
I put together, Nothing, there
were years when I would
wake up and find a
machine that blue screen in
the middle of the night,
what a horrible feeling. Yep.
So, yeah, I think that
putting together machines is a
really good way for people
to not only relax, but
to also, you know, indirectly
learn more about how hardware
works. The kids are young
yet, but I mean, this
is something that I like
to share with my older
daughter is putting the machine
together, showing how it works,
how it goes together. I
think that's a really great
thing. I'm really looking forward
to that. I, I went
and bought a kit, a
little, a little wood kit
who was basically like a
toy screwdriver and screws and
some blocks. And, you know,
a miracle happens in a
dump, a dump truck comes
out of it and I'm
Zen. So my son is
two and a half. And
I think I maybe it's
about two years too soon.
Yeah. I tried though. I
really thought that we could
build this, but his attention
span was too limited, but
the wife noticed, and she's
like, you just really want
to take him into the
garage and build something. Don't
you. If I didn't think
he would take a hammer
directly into the wall and
destroy the house, I would
love to give this guy
a hammer and nails and
see what he could do
with a, with a two
by four. We'll see though,
maybe he's not a creator.
Maybe he's a connector or
maybe he's a nurturer or
some other kind of personal
All your years at Karelian
you were mr. ASP, net
web guy. Was there ever
a time where you regretted
the fact that you chose
this line of work? I
mean, where, where you just
got so oppressively, unfun that,
that you, that you, you
were just like, Oh, this
is, you know, why did
I, why did I sign
up for this? Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. I, I, it's funny.
I actually go through a
crisis of conscience usually about
once a year. Yeah. It's
usually when, when, when nothing
works, it's usually when my
body is breaking down. When,
when, when, when this line
of work is beginning to
physically hurt me. Oh, okay.
You know, people who are
this kind of personality, the
creator personality, I think obsessed.
Cause they want it to
be right. Right. And that
involves sitting in uncomfortable positions,
cramped for very long periods
of time. Yeah. And that
adds up into unhealthy aspects
of, of your body. I
get, I've got a bad
back and I've got bad
hands. And I keep thinking
of my, well, I was
talking to Richard Campbell last week
and he's got, you know,
he's maybe getting arthritis in
his fingers, you know? Yeah.
All programmers can tell you
a story about like, Oh
yeah. And this finger just
doesn't work. Like it used
to what's that one do.
Oh, that's the, that's the
enter key. I find that,
you know, I'm a guitar
player. And I find that
if I'm coding for too
long, and then I go
to try to play guitar,
it takes me a good
hour to limber up before
I can actually start playing.
Right. And I also find
that since, you know, when
I was coding a lot
and then I would go
play one of my, my
middle finger on my left
hand actually froze in a
knee at a 90 degree
angle while I was playing
one night I was playing.
So, I mean, I guess
I was playing it hard,
which I, I tend to
press down hard on the
frets anyway. And just at
the first knuckle, you know,
there's, there's basically two knuckles
in your middle finger. And
at the bottom knuckle, it
just was bent and would
not move up. And I
looked at Jay and I
was like, dude, I can't
play anymore. Look. And I
held at my finger and
you know, my middle finger
was bent at a 90
degree angle and I couldn't
move it back. It was
just like, It's funny. I
am having that problem right
now. My, my right hand,
my middle finger locks up
bent fully in the middle
of the night. And it
just, who knows. And yeah,
well, who knows? I blame
computers. Maybe it's time to
break out the data hand.
Yeah. I think it's, I
think it's time to break
out the voice recognition, but
I would like to borrow
your, your data hand keyboard
though at some point. But
yeah. I mean, those kinds
of things when one wants
to create, but one cannot,
it's really difficult. I just
watched this movie called the
diving bell and the butterfly.
Hmm. Have you seen this?
This is about a Frenchman
who was a paralyzed. He
had a stroke. And the
only thing that worked was
one eye. It's a real
story. And he a jaw
joint, Phillipe, Bodhi, I think
was his name. And he
was like a famous editor
at like Vogue or something
had this stroke and was
locked in. He has locked
in syndrome. He died. And
he wrote a book using
just his eye. Basically they
would read letters to him
in the, in the order
of frequency. Wow. They go,
they go E a S
T and he would blink
when he needed, got the
letter he wanted. Huh. And
he wrote an entire book
it's called the diving bell
and the butterfly. This was
a guy who had to
create, he had to get,
he had to justify How
long it took didn't matter
because the creation process itself
was very enjoyable. Right. So
apparently what he would do
is he would memorize the
passages the night before and
memorize them and then sleep.
And then when he woke
up the next day, he
would basically take his, his
dictation assistant, which was a
person who would read this
to him and he would
blink and they would take
down dictation and, and they'd
try to auto-complete the words
as best they could. And
he died just months after
the book was done. Wow.
Yeah. Fascinating. I don't know
if I'm going to write
code to that level where
I'm going to, you know,
if I have only one
finger left, I will write
C sharp with it. Right.
But I think that the,
the point is though, is
that that personality type has
to get their information out
into the world, whether anyone's
listening or not. I really
got to get back to
this whole mentor thing. You
know, that I can't stress
enough. I mean, maybe that's
why I got into evangelism
and I'm, I've really, you
know, got into training and
teaching because I love seeing
the light go on. And,
and I just want to
be that person that, you
know, went out of their
way to help me when
I needed it. And you
know, you, you get a
person who's new to programming
in a room with a
bunch of programmers that are
just doing their thing. It's
pretty damn intimidating. And, you
know, even sitting around and
listening to them, talk and
stuff, and they're just totally
into what they're doing. And
you know, you ask them
a question and they're like,
ah, what are you an
idiot? You know, you don't,
you risk it's feeling that
and putting you down and
stuff. And you're just trying
to, you're just trying to
figure out some basic stuff.
And I tell you, I
mean, it was real. No,
I think it's like that
in any industry though. Like
I always, I have this
theory that I call the
top gun bar theory, which
is that in any vertical,
in any industry, whether it
be computers or ice skating
or karate or whatever, it's
the same story. It's the
karate kid story. It's the
top gun story, which is,
you know, new guy joins
in tough guys that are
already there, give them a
hard time. They fight, they
fight the struggle. New guy
proves that he can do
it. And then at some
point in the bar where
the, you know, where all
the tough guys hang out,
one of the guys goes
over and kind of chucks
him on the chin and
says you're all right kid.
Yeah. You know, so I
think that, that, that, that
would be cool. You know,
if, if one of my
heroes, one of my programming
heroes would kind of come
over and go, Hey, you're
all right. You're all right.
And then we'd all go
to the bar and hang
out and have beer nuts
or something. Right. I think
everyone has it. I mean,
I bet you that there's
like a knitting pool where
someone wants to get into
knitting and they go, and
they, you know, they're really
tough knitting, you know, the
ice man of knitting is
really cruel to them. And
then at the end they
think you're all right. Cause
you can knit. Yeah. Well,
you know, like I said,
it's, it certainly is tough.
And especially because not a
lot of the people who
are knowledgeable about this stuff
tend to be just so
focused and wrapped up into
what they're doing. But, you
know, there was just some
very, very few very cool
people back in the early
days who would actually sit
down and, and, you know,
I gotta tell you, the
guys at Crescent software were,
were like made a career
out of that. They, where
I, where I cut my
teeth back in the early
days, they, they would write
assembly language routine. So you
could call from quick, basic,
and they would put out
these free pamphlets about assembly,
language, assembly, language primer, they
would comment and give away
their assembly language source code.
They wanted people to know
how to do it. And
it wasn't, you know, maybe
it was because there was
a psychological need to do
that. You know, that's how
they felt good about themselves
or wherever, but okay, fine.
You're sharing your knowledge. You
know, you're giving me inspiration
and it's great. It's a
win, win. So, I mean,
I was that, those kinds
of those kinds of relationships
and those kinds of people
and companies that those are
the kinds of people I
want to, you know, what
I'm teaching, right. When I'm
teaching a class, there are
days that are, you know,
the lights are on, but
nobody's home. I look out
to a sea of gaping
eyes, you know, and they're
just half falling asleep. Maybe
they're a little bored, whatever.
And then there's one, one
guy up front or one
girl up front. Who's like
looking up the ceiling and
saying, Oh, okay, wait a
minute. Can you say that
again? You know, and you
can see the, like the
wheels going and it just
like, it clicks for them.
Oh, I get, okay. So
yeah. It's so cool to
hear that from, from someone,
because sometimes I, I think
I'm the only one that
thinks that kind of stuff,
but, and I always joke
sometimes in talks where I'll
say, if I can just
save the life of one
child. No. Yeah, absolutely. And
one in one doesn't mean
to use the word child
in a diminutive, but it's
just that we always hear
that growing up, but that's
why people teach when you're
talking to a room of
a thousand people and then
suddenly, you know, the guy
who's clearly eager enough to
have sat in the front.
And here's the thing. Those
are the people you want
on your team. You know
what I mean? And he
goes, you want people like
that because they're not afraid.
They're not afraid to learn
and they're not afraid to
show what they don't know.
And you know, the more
they're asking these questions and
learning and stuff that, you
know, they're going to surpass
the people who are just
afraid to look stupid and
are therefore going to stay
stupid. So what can we
do to make the community
more friendly? I mean, like
a, like the, like, I
think like the all.net movement
we've talked to these guys,
we talked to Dave Larrabee
and the different folks that
are there thinking about alternative
ways that are not necessarily
the Microsoft standard way. They
have a lot to offer,
but the barrier to entry
is really difficult. It's, it's
not exactly the most something
that you jump into. And
I get lots of emails
that say, well, how do
I get started? How do
I get started? What can
I do? What, where's the
book everyone's like, where's the
book. I can read that.
Right. That magical thing. That's
gonna make it snap. How
can we make, make it
snap for people? I mean,
I think we do. I
think just by having these
conversations, having these podcasts and
talking and speaking and, and,
you know, being engaged and
involved on our blogs and
things like this, I think
we do make difference in
it. We get email to
that effect all the time,
but I would like to
encourage the listeners to be
that person, to be that
mentor, to actually, you know,
starting with a man in
the mirror, change the world,
by changing yourself and, and
being that sort of, you
know, champion. Cause it's literally,
you will change people's lives.
You will save their lives.
You will, people will owe
their career to you just
by sharing a little bit
of time and knowledge and,
and helping somebody not feel
stupid and over know. And
I would say I would
extend that and say that
you don't even have to
necessarily be an expert. And
then certainly, you know, I
know some stuff, but I
don't claim to be an
expert in many, many things,
but just because you've been
in the business for a
long time, and you're not,
you're not out of work
and homeless. Right. It means
that you are doing something
right. Yep. So you don't
necessarily have to be the
best at X technology to,
to sit down with someone
who's maybe just out of
college or only a couple
of years in the industry
and help them out. But
I mean, you know, you
said a good example by
showing people how to learn
things when they don't know
them and how to look
things up and you know
where to go to get
good information and, and all
of that. And just by
answering some simple questions, you
never know. I mean, some
people will have a mental
block about something and once
they get over that block,
they realize, Oh, this isn't
so hard. I can do
this. And then they're off,
you know, it could be
just one thing. So yeah,
I think you're right. Well,
I think that's a show.
I think so too well,
it's nice to have your
back. We should do this
more often. Yeah, we should.
We should. And I'm happy
to anytime you want, but
you know, if you don't
want to go and do
interviews by yourself too, that's
totally cool with me. I've
been enjoying the time off,
but it's always good to
talk to you, Scott. Cool.
Well, thanks a lot. And
this has been another episode
of Hansel minutes. We'll see
you again next week. Bye
bye.